# The Divinely Blessed Knight-Errant, The Holy Physician Turned Armed Zealot: The STR Cleric

[![CC BY-SA 4.0+](https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/4.0/88x31.png
"CC BY-SA 4.0+")](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)

<blockquote>
War has many manifestations. It can make heroes of ordinary people. It can be
desperate and horrific, with acts of cruelty and cowardice eclipsing instances
of excellence and courage. In either case, the gods of war watch over warriors
and reward them for their great deeds. The clerics of such gods excel in
battle, inspiring others to fight the good fight or offering acts of violence
as prayers.
<br />
<footer>
&mdash;Bruce R. Cordell, Robert J. Schwalb, &amp; James Wyatt; <cite>Dungeons
&amp; Dragons 5<sup>th</sup> Edition: Player&rsquo;s Handbook</cite> (p. 63)
</footer>
</blockquote>

The **STR cleric** is an odd job/odd build in MapleStory that represents just
one of the three possible specializations of STR mages, the other two being the
ice/lightning STR mage, and the fire/poison STR mage. STR clerics are of
particular interest because the niche of ordinary clerics/priests/bishops is
largely in the realm of &ldquo;utility&rdquo;, which is something that STR
mages can usually perform just as well at, while still dedicating all of their
might to melee combat. Furthermore, STR clerics embody the archetype of the
divinely blessed knight-errant: while they may be ordinary mortal combatants in
the melee, they are both well-trained in this mode of combat, as well as graced
with divine powers granted to them by their deit(y/ies) that can be used to
heal, to aid, and occasionally even to harm. It is this potent combination of a
knight&rsquo;s skill with the indispensable ritualistic powers of a priest that
makes the STR cleric both an enviable ally, as well as a formidable opponent.
